#title New
#date 2009-06-30

# 

I've finally decided to take the plunge and move to Posterous.  If all goes according to plan, my posts from here should automagickly be crossposted to my Livejournal, but that's going to primarily become my personal blog; this blog will be used for all things tech/business.

To get things started, I'd like to introduce my new programming language, Ultilang.  The name is horrid, so please, add suggestions for a new one here: .

Ultilang is a strange mix of Nemerle, Python, and Lisp.  A curly brace-based syntax, heavy metaprogramming, and multiple backends (.NET, JVM, Python, and JavaScript planned) come together into what I intend to be the most flexible, powerful language out there.  By leveraging features typically reserved for heavy-duty functional languages and blending them with the ease of use we've come to expect with languages like Python, I hope to create a language suitable for near every task.

The compiler, available at , is written in Python and builds/runs a Python AST.  It's currently in the early stages, having just been started yesterday; the first test, a simple recursive fibonacci sequence printer, runs perfectly.  There's a decent bit of work to do before the compiler can bootstrap up to Ultilang itself, but it's coming along nicely.

There's a list of planned/requested features at ; feel free to add your own.  Even if they don't end up in the language itself, they may well become a macro in one of the libraries.

Stay tuned for more information as the language progresses.
